# An initial example with renderText and textOutput

To return values to the user, we need a strategy to (1) grab needed values from the UI in the server, (2) process as necessary, and then (3) return the result to the UI. To do this, RStudio created a suite of functions that tag-team and circulate the value to and from the server and UI. These are the `render` functions and the `Output` functions.

**The User-to-Server-back-to-User process in broad strokes:**

1. The `renderText` function, in the server, is used to read the text box reactive value (and process as necessary).
2. Then the `renderText` function sends the result back to the Shiny UI by attaching the results to the output object.
3. Shiny's UI reads the output from the server and deliver to the user using the `textOutput` function.

**The User-to-Server-back-to-User process in detail:**
Using our own app as an example. Let's say that we want to print the value from a text box to the UI. To do this we need to "complete the loop" with our UI, which amounts to this:

1. Our UI has a text input box called `mytext`.
2. Anytime the text box changes it triggers the `renderText` function in the server (this is because `input$mytext`, a reactive, is in the `renderText` function).
3. All the code in `renderText` runs each time the text box changes.
4. The results from `renderText` are attached to an output list, in this case we've named it the output `my_output_text`.
5. Since the `my_output_text` object was generated by the server's `renderText` function we need to use the UI's counterpart function `textOutput` to handle it and send it to the user. Note that unlike reactives in the server that are identified as `input$mytext`, the output is named in quotes (so we use `my_output_text` rather than `output$my_output_text`).

### Example app: Using `renderText` and `textOutput` to add to your UI

This app uses `renderText` and `textOutput` to demonstrate how to print text to the UI.

```r
server <- function(input, output, session) {
  
  # input$mytext comes from the UI. my_output_text gets
  # sent back
  output$my_output_text <- renderText({
    return(input$mytext)
    })
}

ui <- basicPage(
    h3("The value in the text box gets printed below with the textOutput function."),
    textInput("mytext", "Input goes here"),
    
    # my_output_text comes from the server
    "Your value is:",
    textOutput("my_output_text")
)

shinyApp(ui = ui, server = server)
```

<iframe style="width:100%; height:220px;" src='http://shiny.nextlevelanalytics.com/apps/shinyapps/app23'></iframe>